{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9                                                                                                 \b CYBERSECURITY BASICS:\b0\par
\par
Tuesday 02nd July 2025 - \par
\par
\b Topics learnt so far: \par
Dirb \b0 - A terminal commandline in Linux to find hidden URLs inside any website.\par
\b Offensive Security \b0 - Thinking and acting like a hacker. Exploiting our own systems to find vulnerabilites.\par
\b Red team \b0 - A team that does offensive security meaning they exploit and find bugs or leaks or vulnerabilities.\par
\b Blue team \b0 - A team that does defensive security meaning they work closely with the Red team to close the leaks or repair the vulnerabilites.\par
\par
\b Today's Lesson \b0 : \par
Areas of Defensive Security.\par
1. Security Operations Center (SOC), where we cover Threat Intelligence\par
2. Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR), where we also cover Malware Analysis\par
\b Security Operations Center (SOC)\b0\par
A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of cyber security professionals that monitors the network and its systems to detect malicious cyber security events. \par
\b Threat Intelligence\par
\b0 Threat intelligence is information about potential dangers to an organization's systems. It helps identify, understand, and mitigate risks from cyber adversaries. Essentially, it's like having a map that shows where the threats are coming from.\par
\b Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)\par
Digital Forensics\b0\par
Digital forensics is like being a detective for computers and smartphones. When something bad happens, like a cyber attack, digital forensics experts look for clues in the digital world. They check things like files, memory, and logs to find out what happened and who did it. It's all about using science to solve digital crimes!\par
\par
\b Incident Response\par
\b0 Incident Response is like having a plan ready in case something goes wrong with computers or networks, like if someone tries to break in or steal information. When an incident happens, like a cyber attack or a mistake, people who handle incident response jump into action. They look at things like network logs, which are records of all the data that moves through the network. These logs help them find out if there was an attack and what kind it was. They figure out what went wrong, fix it, and make sure it doesn\rquote t happen again. Think of it like a superhero team that comes to save the day when something bad happens online!\par
\par
\b The four major phases of the incident response process are:\par
\b0 1. Preparation: Getting ready for incidents by training and having plans in place. \par
2. Detection and Analysis: Finding out if an incident is happening and understanding its severity. \par
3. Containment, Eradication, and Recovery: Stopping the incident, removing it, and fixing affected systems. \par
4. Post-Incident Activity: Reviewing what happened and learning from it to prevent future incidents.\par
\b Malware Analysis\par
\b0 Malware Analysis is when experts look at bad software to understand how it works and how it can harm computers. They break it down to find out where it came from and how to get rid of it. This helps keep systems safe from attacks.\par
Malware includes many types, such as:\par
\par
\b A virus \b0 is a piece of code (part of a program) that attaches itself to a program. It is designed to spread from one computer to another and works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer. The result ranges from the computer becoming slow to unusable.\par
\b Trojan Horse \b0 is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath. For example, a victim might download a video player from a shady website that gives the attacker complete control over their system.\par
\b Ransomware\b0  is a malicious program that encrypts the user\rquote s files. Encryption makes the files unreadable without knowing the encryption password. The attacker offers the user the encryption password if the user is willing to pay a \ldblquote ransom.\rdblquote\par
\b Malware analysis \b0 aims to learn about such malicious programs using various means:\par
\b Static analysis \b0 works by inspecting the malicious program without running it. This usually requires solid knowledge of assembly language (the processor\rquote s instruction set, i.e., the computer\rquote s fundamental instructions).\par
\b Dynamic analysis \b0 works by running the malware in a controlled environment and monitoring its activities. It lets you observe how the malware behaves when running.\par
\par
\par
\b Practical Example of Defensive Security\par
\b0 Let us pretend you are a Security Operations Center (SOC) analyst responsible for protecting a bank. This bank's SOC uses a \b Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tool\b0 , which gathers security-related information and events from various sources and presents them in one dashboard. If the SIEM finds something suspicious, an alert will be generated.\par
\par
Exercise: SIEM Simulation. (Day in the life of a Junior Security Analyst)\par
\b Completed the room by identifying a malicious IP address. \par
Searching on a website to check the nature of the IP address and then reporting it to my SOC team lead. \par
Then got permission to block that IP address using the firewall and VOILA!! \par
\par
DONE WITH THE ROOM AND WE COMPLETED Defensive Security Intro!!!\par
---------------------------- xxx ---------------- xxx --------------------xxx-------------------------------------------\par
Tuesday 3rd July 2025\par
Careers in Cyber :\par
Entry level jobs :\par
SECURITY ENGINEERS:\par
\b0 Security engineers develop and implement security solutions using threats and vulnerability data - often sourced from members of the security workforce.\par
\b Responsibilities:\b0\par
1. Testing and screening security measures across software\par
2. Monitor networks and reports to update systems and mitigate vulnerabilities\par
3. Identify and implement systems needed for optimal security\par
\b\par
INCIDENT RESPONDERS:\par
\b0 Incident responders respond productively and efficiently to security breaches.\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\b0 1. Developing and adopting a thorough, actionable incident response plan.\par
2. Maintaining strong security best practices and supporting incident response measures.\par
3. Post-incident reporting and preparation for future attacks, considering learnings and adaptations to take from incidents.\par
\par
\b DIGITAL FORENSICS EXAMINER\par
\b0 If you like to play detective, this might be the perfect job. If you are working as part of a law-enforcement department, you would be focused on collecting and analysing evidence to help solve crimes: charging the guilty and exonerating the innocent. On the other hand, if your work falls under defending a company's network, you will be using your forensic skills to analyse incidents, such as policy violations.\par
\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\b0 1. Collect digital evidence while observing legal procedures.\par
2. Analyse digital evidence to find answers related to the case.\par
3. Document your findings and report on the case.\par
\par
\b MALWARE ANALYST:\par
\b0 A Malware analyst's work involves analysing suspicious programs, discovering what they do and writing reports about their findings. A malware analyst is sometimes called a reverse-engineer as their core task revolves around converting compiled programs from machine language to readable code, usually in a low-level language.\par
This work requires the malware analyst to have a strong programming background, especially in low-level languages such as assembly language and C language.\par
\par
\b Responsibilities\par
\b0 1. Carry out static analysis of malicious programs, which entails reverse-engineering.\par
2. Conduct dynamic analysis of malware samples by observing their activities in a controlled environment.\par
3. Document and report all the findings.\par
\par
\b PENETRATION TESTER\par
\b0 You may see penetration testing referred to as pentesting and ethical hacking. \par
A penetration tester's job role is to test the security of the systems and software within a company - this is achieved through attempts to uncover flaws and vulnerabilities through systemised hacking. \par
Penetration testers exploit these vulnerabilities to evaluate the risk in each instance. \par
The company can then take these insights to rectify issues to prevent a real-world cyberattack.\par
\par
\b Responsibilities\par
\b0 1. Conduct tests on computer systems, networks, and web-based applications.\par
2. Perform security assessments, audits, and analyse policies.\par
3. Evaluate and report on insights, recommending actions for attack prevention.\par
\par
\b RED TEAMERS:\par
\b0 The main difference between a Red Teamer and a penetration tester is their focus. \par
Penetration testers look for vulnerabilities in systems to help organizations improve their security, while Red Teamers simulate real-world attacks to test how well a company can detect and respond to threats. \par
Red Teamers often have a more targeted approach, acting like adversaries and assessing the organization's security controls over a longer period. Both roles are important, but they serve different purposes in strengthening security. Be sure to read the task details to continue progressing!\par
\b Responsibilities:\par
\b0 1. Emulate the role of a threat actor to uncover exploitable vulnerabilities, maintain access and avoid detection.\par
2. Assess organisations' security controls, threat intelligence, and incident response procedures.\par
3. Evaluate and report on insights, with actionable data for companies to avoid real-world instances.\b\par
}
 